---
layout: default
title: A: Open Source Components
permalink: /rv/rv-reference/a-open-source-components/
lang: en
---

# A: Open Source Components

RV uses components licensed under the GNU LGPL and other open-source licenses. There is no GPL code in any of RV’s binaries. LGPL code for which Tweak Software (or Tweak Films) is the copyright holder is sometimes directly compiled into RV (not as a shared library).

Tweak Software takes open source licensing seriously. Open source software can have huge social benefits and we ourselves have benefited from the work of open source developers. We have in the past contributed, time, code and funding to open source projects and will continue to do so in the future.

## GTO

The session file (.rv) is a form of GTO file. The GTO file library is distributed under the terms similar to the BSD license and is available from our website. The GTO format was invented and is copyrighted by Tweak Films.

The GTO source distribution includes a handful of tools to edit GTO files independently of any application. Also included is a Python module which makes editing the files extremely easy.

RV ships with prebuilt versions of GTO command line tools.

## Libquicktime

RV can use libquicktime which is distributed under the terms of the GNU LGPL to read and write QuickTime, dv, MP4, and AVI movie files. The libquicktime library can be found in $RV_HOME/lib as a shared object. Libquicktime is capable of reading codecs not shipped with RV. You can read documentation at the libquicktime website to find out how to write or install new codecs. Plugin codecs can be found in $RV_HOME/plugins/lqt in the RV distribution tree. New codecs can be installed in the same location.

Source code for libquicktime and the plugins used by RV is included with the RV distribution.

## FFMPEG

On Linux, RV uses an LGPL-only version of FFMPEG by itself and as a libquicktime plugin to decode H.264 video and AAC audio. Source code for FFMPEG is included with RV. We build FFMPEG with the flags generated by its configure script, but we do not use its make files. RV (via the ffmpeg libquicktime plugin) uses only a small portion of FFMPEG. These portions are restricted to the codecs for which Tweak Software has a license – namely the AVC1 (H.264) video and AAC audio codecs for decoding only (the MPEG4 codecs generally).

If you are using ffmpeg through our ffmpeg plugin directly then you can find directions in $RV_HOME/src/mio_ffmpeg/README for recompiling with support for additional codecs ffmpeg supports. The obligation is yours, however, to sort out licensing if doing so.

## FreeType

RV uses FreeType for rendering text on the image view.

## FTGL

Copyright (c) 2001-2004 Henry Maddocks <ftgl@opengl.geek.nz>.

## LibRaw

This software uses LibRaw (libraw.org) to decode some raw camera file formats.

## Libtiff

RV uses version 3.10.0 of libtiff as to read and write TIFF files and EXIF jpeg metadata.

Copyright (c) 1988-1997 Sam Leffler

Copyright (c) 1991-1997 Silicon Graphics, Inc.

Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute, and sell this software and its documentation for any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided that (i) the above copyright notices and this permission notice appear in all copies of the software and related documentation, and (ii) the names of Sam Leffler and Silicon Graphics may not be used in any advertising or publicity relating to the software without the specific, prior written permission of Sam Leffler and Silicon Graphics.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED AS-IS AND WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS, IMPLIED OR OTHERWISE, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. IN NO EVENT SHALL SAM LEFFLER OR SILICON GRAPHICS BE LIABLE FOR ANY SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OF ANY KIND, OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER OR NOT ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF DAMAGE, AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.

## LibEXIF

RV uses libexif (LGPL) to decode EXIF tags in JPEG files.

## Libjpeg

This software is based in part on the work of the Independent JPEG Group. RV uses the Independent JPEG Group’s free JPEG software library to decode jpeg.

## OpenJPEG

Copyright (c) 2002-2007, Communications and Remote Sensing Laboratory, Universite catholique de Louvain (UCL), Belgium

Copyright (c) 2002-2007, Professor Benoit Macq

Copyright (c) 2001-2003, David Janssens

Copyright (c) 2002-2003, Yannick Verschueren

Copyright (c) 2003-2007, Francois-Olivier Devaux and Antonin Descampe

Copyright (c) 2005, Herve Drolon, FreeImage Team

All rights reserved.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:

1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS ‘AS IS’ AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

## OpenEXR

RV uses the the OpenEXR library. The source code for the library and tools can be found on the [OpenEXR web site](http://www.openexr.org).

Copyright (c) 2007, Industrial Light & Magic, a division of Lucas Digital Ltd. LLC

All rights reserved.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:

* Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
* Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
* Neither the name of Industrial Light & Magic nor the names of its contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software without specific prior written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS AS IS AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

## Minizip

RV uses the minizip package (which comes with the libz source code) Copyright (C) 1998-2005 Gilles Vollant.

## Audiofile

The Audiofile library is distributed under the terms of the LGPL.

## OpenColorIO

Copyright (c) 2003-2010 Sony Pictures Imageworks Inc., et al. All Rights Reserved.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:

* Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
* Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
* Neither the name of Sony Pictures Imageworks nor the names of its contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software without specific prior written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS AS IS AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

## Yaml-CPP and libyaml

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the Software), to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED AS IS, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.

## tinyxml

This software uses tinyxml.

## libresample

RV uses libresample distributed under the terms of LGPL.

## OpenImageIO

Copyright 2008 Larry Gritz and the other authors and contributors. All Rights Reserved.

Based on BSD-licensed software Copyright 2004 NVIDIA Corp. Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:

* Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
* Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
* Neither the name of the software’s owners nor the names of its contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software without specific prior written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS AS IS AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

## Atomic Ops

Copyright (c) 2003 Hewlett-Packard Development Company, L.P.

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the Software), to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions: The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED AS IS, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.

## Boehm-Demers Garbage Collector

Copyright 1988, 1989 Hans-J. Boehm, Alan J. Demers

Copyright (c) 1991-1995 by Xerox Corporation. All rights reserved.

Copyright 1996-1999 by Silicon Graphics. All rights reserved.

Copyright 1999 by Hewlett-Packard Company. All rights reserved.

Copyright (C) 2007 Free Software Foundation, Inc

Copyright (c) 2000-2011 by Hewlett-Packard Development Company.

THIS MATERIAL IS PROVIDED AS IS, WITH ABSOLUTELY NO WARRANTY EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED. ANY USE IS AT YOUR OWN RISK.

Permission is hereby granted to use or copy this program for any purpose, provided the above notices are retained on all copies. Permission to modify the code and to distribute modified code is granted, provided the above notices are retained, and a notice that the code was modified is included with the above copyright notice.

## mp4v2

Software distributed under the License is distributed on an AS IS basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the License for the specific language governing rights and limitations under the License.

The Original Code is MPEG4IP.

The Initial Developer of the Original Code is Cisco Systems Inc. Portions created by Cisco Systems Inc. are Copyright (C) Cisco Systems Inc. 2001–2005. All Rights Reserved.

3GPP features implementation is based on 3GPP’s TS26.234-v5.60, and was contributed by Ximpo Group Ltd. Portions created by Ximpo Group Ltd. are:

Copyright (C) Ximpo Group Ltd. 2003, 2004. All Rights Reserved.

Contributor(s):

Dave Mackie dmackie@cisco.com Alix Marchandise-Franquet alix@cisco.com Ximpo Group Ltd. mp4v2@ximpo.com Bill May wmay@cisco.com.

## lcms

Little Color Management System Copyright (c) 1998-2014 Marti Maria Saguer.

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the Software), to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED AS IS, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.

## OpenCV

Copyright (C) 2000, Intel Corporation, all rights reserved.

Third party copyrights are property of their respective owners.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:

* Redistribution’s of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
* Redistribution’s in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
* The name of Intel Corporation may not be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software without specific prior written permission.

This software is provided by the copyright holders and contributors as is and any express or implied warranties, including, but not limited to, the implied warranties of merchantability and fitness for a particular purpose are disclaimed. In no event shall the Intel Corporation or contributors be liable for any direct, indirect, incidental, special, exemplary, or consequential damages (including, but not limited to, procurement of substitute goods or services; loss of use, data, or profits; or business interruption) however caused and on any theory of liability, whether in contract, strict liability, or tort (including negligence or otherwise) arising in any way out of the use of this software, even if advised of the possibility of such damage.

## PySide

Copyright (C) 2013 Digia Plc and/or its subsidiary(-ies).

Contact: PySide team <contact@pyside.org>.

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of the GNU Lesser General Public License version 2.1 as published by the Free Software Foundation. This library is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU Lesser General Public License for more details. You should have received a copy of the GNU Lesser General Public License along with this library; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin St, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301 USA.

## PyOpenGL

PyOpenGL License (v3)

PyOpenGL is based on PyOpenGL 1.5.5, Copyright &copy; 1997-1998 by James Hugunin, Cambridge MA, USA, Thomas Schwaller, Munich, Germany and David Ascher, San Francisco CA, USA.

Contributors to the PyOpenGL project in addition to those listed above include:

* David Konerding
* Soren Renner
* Rene Liebscher
* Randall Hopper
* Michael Fletcher
* Thomas Malik
* Thomas Hamelryck
* Jack Jansen
* Michel Sanner
* Tarn Weisner Burton
* Andrew Cox
* Rene Dudfield

PyOpenGL is Copyright (c) 1997-1998, 2000-2006 by the contributors.

All rights reserved.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:

* Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
* Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
* The names of the contributors may not be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software without specific prior written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS AS IS AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
